Project name: Artificial intelligence (AI) for cellular networks

What problem does this innovation aim to solve? 
More and more devices rely on a stable mobile network connection – such as smartphones, 
robots, or machines. At the same time, the amount of data being transmitted through mobile 
networks is increasing rapidly. 
Today, it is a major challenge to provide all devices with a fast, reliable, and high-performance 
mobile connection at the same time – especially in places where many people or machines are 
online simultaneously.

What changes does this innovation bring? 
AI can significantly improve mobile net works. It can detect where large numbers of devices are 
connected – for example, at major events or in busy urban areas. It then ensures that more 
capacity is made available exactly where it is needed, without reducing service quality for users 
or devices in other locations. This allows many people and devices a strong and fast connection 
at the same time. AI can also help increase download speeds. Overall, AI contributes to making 
digital communication more efficient and powerful.

Who will benefit from this innovation? 
Anyone using a smartphone or other digital devices benefits from this innovation. Institutions 
such as hospitals, factories, and operators of autonomous vehicles also gain increased safety. 

What is the technology behind it and how does it work? 
Mobile devices regularly send information to their nearest base station – for example, how much 
data they want to transmit. The base station then has to decide who gets how many resources in 
the radio channel and when. (The radio channel is an invisible connection that carries data 
between a device and the network.) AI helps with this by learning how devices typically behave 
and what resources they require. This enables the base station to proactively respond on its 
own, depending on the number of devices connected or changes in the environment. What is 
more, the entire network of base stations adjusts automatically – without any human 
intervention.

Challenges 
• AI is good at recognizing patterns. But when something unusual hap pens, AI often does not 
know how to respond because such situations are hard to train for. 
• Additionally, AI in mobile networks must be very efficient: it should not consume more energy 
or proces sing power than existing solutions.• Manufacturers need to be convinced to integrate 
the TCUs.

When will this innovation be available?
Approximately 2030 to 2039
