Project name: Biointegrated eletronic implant

What problem does this innovation aim to solve?
 Today, electronic implants help to alleviate symptoms in some neuro degenerative diseases 
(diseases that damage neurons in the brain and the peripheral nervous system) by stimulating 
the brain. But these implants are not fully integrated with the body’s cells and tissues. Over 
time, the body forms a protective layer around the implant. This makes it harder for the implant 
to deliver the therapeutic effect of brain stimulation. As a result, the electrical stimulation dose 
often needs to be increased – which may lead to more side effects and faster battery drain.

What changes does this innovation bring? 
New organic materials like hydrogels with built-in semiconductors can improve how well 
implants integrate with tissue of the body. These new materials are soft, flexible and hydrated, 
just like natural tissue. Because of this, researchers hope that the body will no longer build a 
barrier around the implant.

Who will benefit from this innovation? 
• People with brain injuries or diseases that damage the nervous system, such as Parkinson’s 
disease.

What is the technology behind it and how does it work? 
These novel implants are electronic devices made with organic materials. They help the brain 
when it is not working properly. If brain activity is too low, for example, it is specifically increased 
by the implant. This is called neuromodulation and allows for lost functions to be restored.
 These devices are called cyborganic neuroprosthetics. They work similar to a prosthesis for the 
body. Although they do not cure the disease, they help to replace the lost brain functions.

Challenges 
• Proving that the new materials are safe, stable, and work well in the body. 
• Getting official approval can take a long time due to legal medical device regulations. 
• Finding companies that invest in production and distribution. 
• The technology is still expensive – cost affects access for everyone who needs it.

 When will this innovation be available?
Approximately 2030 to 2040
