Project name: Prototype of a robot for plant watering

What problem does this innovation aim to solve?
The plants in Pillnitz Palace Park are increasingly suffering from the heat and drought. For the
gardeners, this means considerably more work (approx. 30%) as they need to water more.

What changes does this innovation bring?
• The assistant robot helps with watering. It mainly performs physically demanding, repetitive
tasks that do not require specialist knowledge.
• It currently saves the gardening specialists 20% of their time.
• It transports the water to the plants. The gardeners no longer need to pull heavy water hoses to
the plants. However, they check the plants’ water requirements and instruct the robot where to
go.
• In the future, the robot could take over the watering.

Who will benefit from this innovation?
This innovation will make work easier for the staff in Pillnitz Park. Guests can continue to enjoy a
well-groomed park.

What is the technology behind it and how does it work?
The robot uses a satellite system (GPS) to navigate through the park. A light radar checks for
obstacles up to 10 m away. A laser scanner detects people and objects within a 50-cm radius
and switches the robot off if necessary. The robot fills up with water on its own and receives
commands from the gardening staff using a special remote control.

Challenges
• Development teams must build safety systems for use in public spaces and in difficult
weather and ground conditions.
• Technical and development experts should respond to the concerns of the professionals and
adapt the robot accordingly.
• Visitors to the park must trust and accept the robot. • The aim is to turn the prototype into a
marketable product.

When will this innovation be available?
Approximately 2030 to 2040

Who is researching this?
The Barkhausen Institut (BI) in collaboration with Technical Design (TD).

What do we see?
A prototype of a robot designed to assist with watering tasks in the park of Schloss Pillnitz.